>> Kyle Simpson: Let's
try to get our Fibonacci
thing to actually do something useful.
Let's go to our worker, and let's say that
when we receive the onMessage is when we
wanna start up our Fibonacci generation.
So it won't even really
matter what the message is.
But if we send a message,
the worker won't start automatically.
But once we send a message it'll say okay,
I know that that means
you want me to start up.
So I'm gonna have another
function that I'll
call getNextFibonacci and,
>> Kyle Simpson: This
variable here is gonna
be updated as we ask for
Fibonacci, so we're gonna say,
>> Kyle Simpson: I don't know what to call
this yet, but I'll call it fibIdx that's
gonna tell us that we need to do the next
one of those and then update it.
And then we're gonna call, so we'll say,
>> Kyle Simpson: I'll
probably rename these variables in
just a moment as we sketch this out,
but we're gonna do currFib.
>> Kyle Simpson: So this is a statement
that's gonna be a long running thing
potentially.
Once we get into those bigger numbers,
this line 14 is gonna spin
off this recursive thing.
And it's gonna be running for
seconds and seconds at a time.
But once we get that back,
we want to then post a message
to the page with the information
of what we've just done.
So we wanna basically say,
actually so let's use fibIdx here.
We want to send to the page, so
we're gonna do self.postMessage.
And here I'm gonna send two pieces
of data, so I'll use an object,
and I wanna say,
>> Kyle Simpson: The number
is gonna be fibNum.
>> Kyle Simpson: And then we'll call it,
I guess, idx is fibIdx.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
we wanna send that message to the webpage.
And we'll receive that message and
render it.
But after we've generated one, then we
want to start generating the next one.
So we wanna say getNextFib,
and we want to,
>> Kyle Simpson: Update with fibIdx + 1.
>> Kyle Simpson: So we could do this a
couple of ways, we could use this fibIdx,
or we could just use curFib.
So I think that's what we'll do,
we'll skip the fibIdx, and
we'll just use curFib here.
>> Kyle Simpson: Once we have done that,
we will update curFib to the next number,
and then we'll call getNextFib again.
>> Kyle Simpson: So the way we spin this
off is that when we receive a message,
we'll call, I guess we gotta do that here.
>> Kyle Simpson: We'll call,
>> Kyle Simpson: getNextFib().
>> Kyle Simpson: By the way,
since this is calling it immediately,
we're basically gonna be in a tight
loop where nothing can interrupt it.
If we wanted to yield to allow a message
to come in, we could do a very simple
sort of a yield back to the event loop by
saying start it up on the next event loop.
So maybe we'll leave it like that for now.
But we're not gonna take advantage of
the ability to send in a message, so
it probably doesn't matter.
So let's just check to make
sure this is gonna work.
We're gonna say when we receive
the first message, we call getNextFib,
which starts calculating fib of zero.
Once it's done that,
it sends 0 and the num off, and
then it updates this and
then it says hey, do it again.
So that logic seems valid.
Now back in the client webpage,
we need to take this part out.
And it's going to be right
here in startFibs that we're
gonna call worker.postMessage.
And it doesn't really matter what we send,
but we've gotta send some thing.
So I'm just gonna send
an object that says start true.
Since we're not looking at that object,
it doesn't really matter.
But that tells it hey, go ahead and
start, and I'm listening for messages,
so I'll start rendering those.
And then while we're at it, the stopFibs,
the way we kill a worker
is to say worker terminate.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
all that should be left for
us to do is to pull off messages
from the worker and render them.
Remember, event.data is gonna be this
object that we send that's got idx and
num in it.
So let's,
>> Kyle Simpson: I
think I got the word num and
fib backwards, but that's okay.
We're going to call renderFib.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
we're gonna be using event.data.idx and
event.data dot, did I call it num?
Yeah, I called it num,
actually let's change that.
In our worker, I'm going to change that
back to fib so that's not so confusing.
>> Kyle Simpson: The property that we
send back and the message will be fib.
So we'll say event.data.fib,
that should render that.
And the render just adds this message
of those two values to our page.
>> Speaker 1: Which
variables did you change?
>> Kyle Simpson: I went over to my
web worker and the property name,
instead of calling it num, I call it fib.
Just cuz I didn't wanna confuse
myself on the other screen.
>> Kyle Simpson: So here we have idx and
fib are the two properties on
that object that we're pulling.
Okay, so we've cleared our console,
let's restart the page.
And when I call the Start button,
we should start seeing Fibonacci
numbers being generated.
And there we go, so as we get higher and
higher, that web worker is taking longer.
Notice that while it's generating those,
I'm still able to do stuff on the page.
Able to scroll around, highlight things,
because my page is not being blocked.
Even though all that work is
happening in the background,
my page is still running independently.
>> Kyle Simpson: We can
go look at our console,
we don't see any error messages there.
>> Kyle Simpson: Takes a little
while to get to Fibonacci of 45.
Last night I let it run long enough to
get to 46, and I never saw it go past 46,
it was taking much, much longer.
Because it exponentially grows when
you do binary recursion like that.
So if we click Stop,
now the web worker has died and
we won't ever receive any other messages.
But if we click Start again,
it'll start over from scratch.
So it killed the worker and
then restarted it.
>> Kyle Simpson: So what questions can
we answer about, and don't forget to
click Stop on yours or kill so
that you're not killing your battery.